having a ban on the Hawaiian fish has
good good and bad involved in it it's
going to be really bad obviously for the
collectors that's what they do for
living there collecting these fish if
there's a ban there's no need for them
to collect fish anymore so it would have
serious impact on the collectors there's
going to be a lot of controversy there's
a lot of mixed feelings here there's a
lot of people involved in marine
collection no one wants to see them
without food on their tables at night
and I think that's where there's a lot
of controversy it's a business they're
in it for the money if they their other
work that these same people could be
doing they don't have to take the fish
and export them from Hawaii but that's
how they're they're earning a living
there are other ways to earn living it
why if those fish stayed here there were
maybe probably 40 times as valuable the
same people who are collecting could be
taking people out there to view the fish
once legislators are made aware of the
facts they tend to walk away pretty
quickly from any kind of you know
sweeping legislation like banning an
entire industry because they realize hey
this isn't this isn't a problem it's
been a sustainable fishery for I think
35 almost 40 years since it first
started here I think it continues to be
a sustainable fishery the issue doesn't
seem to be resource based but it's more
of a conflict based issue I just don't
think there's enough data out there to
support either side do a total ban or to
let it continue at the current levels if
continuing the current levels is
definitely not sustainable what I see
happening right now is an argument that
never ends
I just never ends everybody's fighting
about it but what does anybody actually
doing about it you know our reefs aren't
closed down to collectors they probably
never will be and even if they are it's
probably going to be too late